Savheim IV - Lots of important information has been added to item tooltips.  Pay close attention to weapon tooltips, check your Hammer tooltip for new ways to build, take a close look at wards, and much more!
Savheim IV - You can reposition some GUI windows by clicking & dragging, or Left-Alt and then click & drag.  Press Esc to get a cursor.
Savheim IV - Recommended game settings I:  Disable Depth of Field, Chromatic Aberration, and Motion Blur.  You can also disable Key Hints and Raven hints if you like.
Savheim IV - Recommended game settings II:  Please try Settings/Accessibility/Camera Shake = ON.  Iron Gate swapped Mouse 2 and 3 for Secondary Attack and Block - swap them back if you prefer.
Savheim IV - The game takes a while to load with so many mods installed.  Please go get a tankard of ale and use the Viking potty.
Savheim IV - Group commands: /invite [name]; /leave; /remove [name]; /promote [name].  Group benefits:  shared exp, group gem effects, draggable user interface, group chat (/p), colored names, group ping (LeftAlt), and bonus comfort while resting together.  Try fusing two different boss gems...
Savheim IV - Press 'U' to open Guild panel.  This has been added to Savheim IV only to allow sharing semi-private portals.
Savheim IV - All portals will default to Private on creation now.  Portals are now harder to obtain though, and you will never be able to teleport metals.  P toggles portal display on the map.
Savheim IV - All weapon classes have been majorly reworked in Savheim IV (again!) to give them unique and improved playstyles.  Give them all another swing, even if you decided against them last playthrough...  Wait, are you reading online info about Valheim meta builds??  This. Is. SAVHEIM!!!
Savheim IV - Block Armor = amount you can block.  [Block Armor * Parry Bonus] = amount you can parry.  Excess damage drains health.  Block Force does nothing.  Magical barriers grant infinite parry stats while active.
Savheim IV - Backstab: sneaking, attack from behind, and enemy not in combat.  Critical: attack a staggered enemy.  Parry: perfectly-timed block.  Shield Counter: normal block (not parry) with any shield followed immediately by normal attack from any one-handed weapon, excluding knives.
Savheim IV - Sloped combat works much better now, but you have to aim your crosshairs vertically as well as horizontally!
Savheim IV - Harpoons now have a basic secondary attack.  Primary attacks tether, then the Use key reels in the target if it's lighter than you.  If it's heavier than you, well, with great power comes great responsibility...  seriously, try harpooning a distant tree and then pressing E.
Savheim IV - Stamina drain while sneaking can now be paused by wearing leather armor.  Sneaking now levels faster and gains movement speed instead of stamina benefits from leveling.  Backstabs now reward bonus Sneak experience.
Savheim IV - Torches are more useful now!  They protect from Cold in a small radius, last longer, and can be upgraded at the workbench for greater duration.  They also now function normally in all biomes.  Lanterns won't break and provide light even when hanging from your hip.
Savheim IV - Most gear can support a maximum of three sockets, though you'll need to hunt rare materials for the third socket.  Jewelry cannot be socketed.
Savheim IV - Try to unlock as many recipes as you can...  Bronze Nails?  What do I need those for?  Craft them and see!
Savheim IV - Once you can craft them, it's a good idea to keep a Rune Focus and a Soulcatcher Lantern with you on adventures.  Use the Rune Focus on lore stones.  Use the lantern on souls of defeated enemies.
Savheim IV - You can modify the color of text on signs.  Open the sign prompt as usual and type < color=white> or < color=#FFFFFF> (remove the space between "< color"), then type your message.  Use multiple tags for rainbow signs!  The color automatically resets if you enter new text.
Savheim IV - Building tips!  While holding your hammer and hovering over a placed piece, hold shift and press the deconstruct button to select that piece.  Q and E cycle snap points.  Selections per tab persist, so you can change tabs and then hit Esc to quickly swap build pieces on different tabs.
Savheim IV - You've learned to dive under the water by pointing down and pressing crouch!  Swimming consumes less stamina as you level it up.  Go swimming!  Wat-er you waiting for??
Savheim IV - Boss powers now have both passive and active aspects, and you get to choose two!  Read about them at the starting stones or in your Valheim Compendium (inventory -> raven icon).  Keybinds are hardcoded to T and G, regardless of in-game settings.
Savheim IV - World progression is now tied to your character.  You must be present for boss kills to get credit for them.  This affects your ability to equip gear & boss powers, merchant inventory, world spawns, and maybe more!
Savheim IV - You must defeat all main bosses preceeding the tier of gear you wish to equip, including unique weapons.  Iron Sword?  Gotta deal with Eikthyr and The Elder before you know how to use one.
Savheim IV - Death continues to make progress in therapy, though lately there have been some mixed results.  You'll still keep your gear when you die, but all skills now lose experience on death.  Resurrect each other with Surtling Cores.
Savheim IV - Check your Valheim Compendium (Inventory -> Raven icon) for useful game and mod information, such as Active Effects.
Savheim IV - Comfort and Rested are easier to obtain, but teleporting long distances will now reduce your Rested duration.  The radius of the map is worth about 90 minutes of Rested.  F6 toggles a list of comforting pieces while in shelter.  Rest in groups for extra duration!
Savheim IV - Waypoints offer safety from monsters, warmth, and a way to pick up a Rested buff in the field if you sit near it during favorable weather.
Savheim IV - Zone progression:  Meadows -> Black Forest -> Swamp -> Mountains -> Plains -> Mistlands -> Ashlands -> Deep North.  They all hold surprises since Savheim III!
Savheim IV - Most outdoor camps, resources, and dungeons will respawn slowly at varying rates, but only if players haven't built anything near them (anything made with a Hammer counts as "built").
Savheim IV - Steps have been taken to ensure we can all coexist in the same world despite playing at different speeds.  Relax and enjoy the journey.
Savheim IV - Sell precious stones, trophies, extra keys, wishbones, and some other boss loot to the traders.  Split stacks in your inventory to control quantities you want to sell.  Double-click items you want to buy to specify quantities.
Savheim IV - The world gets more dangerous the further from the center you travel.  Those who venture far return wealthy... if they return at all.
Savheim IV - Thank you to Iron Gate Studio for making Valheim such an amazing game, and then for providing such deep hooks for the modding community!
Savheim IV - Thank you to some very talented modders and builders:  Azumatt, blaxxun, wackymole, Jere, Raaka, DhakhaR, JPValheim, KG, OrianaVenture, Blacks7ar, ASharpPen, Rusty, Searica, MSchmoecker, shudnal, Alcan, Fustercluck, and more!
Savheim IV - Thank you to MetalMarshmallow, Woody, goatman, Tizz, and Rusty for playtesting Savheim IV and helping resolve lots of issues before launch!  Thanks to Matt for updated TotinoTunes!
Savheim IV - There's now a search feature in the hammer build menu.  Advanced search options:  @<modname>, !<characteristic or resource>.  If searching the Catalog, use the search field at the bottom of the window instead of the top.
Savheim IV - Gems and jewelry have been completely reworked.  Craft a Runaeldr Satchel to conveniently take jewelry options with you on adventures.
Savheim IV - Iron Gate gave Ashlands enemies juke attack animations.  They're scary.  Bring a tower shield and block them until you learn their timing.  Go well-prepared in general.  Ashlands is no joke.
Savheim IV - Each boss now has a small chance to drop a variety of weapons unique to that boss.  These weapons trade an upgrade for unique mechanics.  You'll have opportunities to find endgame versions of each.  If you're a collector, search the Catalog for Cheat Sword after killing each boss.
Savheim IV - Most bows and crossbows now have a small chance their projectiles will leave behind reusable fletchings.  Wood arrows and bolts can now be crafted from inventory, but they do less damage.
Savheim IV - All players can now create a marketplace for other players to buy from.  Please help make the economy interesting by setting what you think are competitive prices.  Please don't spoil the game for others by setting minimum prices.
Savheim IV - Pick an ammo type to be your top of the order, put it on your hotbar, then tap that number instead of F to reset your rotation.  Ammo sequence is based on inventory location.  The Runaeldr Satchel hides ammo.  Utility spells only enter the rotation if on your main hotbar.
Savheim IV - New keys:  L-Alt: dodge (double-click for normal roll).  T, G: use boss powers.  F: cycle ammo.  Left-Shift: Zoom bow.  ~: swap hotbars.  Z, X, C: mini-hotbar.  P: toggle map portal display.  U: Guilds interface.  Left-ctrl: Change + to - for crafting resource tracker.  Shift+Ctrl+Alt+U: Unsummon
Savheim IV - Items needed to summon bosses now have small chances to drop from elite creatures.  These same creatures will begin to hoarde these items after you've slain their master.
Savheim IV - Fishing no longer requires stamina.  Fish chum helps attract fish.  Several new food recipes involving fish are now available, offering unique stat combinations.  For performance, fish only appear if you're holding a fishing rod.
Savheim IV - You're not intended to achieve high enchanting levels on early-game gear.  It's Ok to not have a +20 Flint Knife.  Your Enchanting skill will increase with time as you fight creatures.  Chill, and get back to adventuring.
Savheim IV - Level 50 blacksmiths can repair from inventory.  Level 50 builders sometimes save resources.  Farmers can plant and harvest more plants at once at higher levels.  Level 30 foragers can see respawn times.  Level 50 miners have a chance to demolish entire rocks.  Ranchers can sense hunger at level 10, calm nearby creatures at level 25, and see pregnancy status at level 50.
Savheim IV - Most weapon types now offer some form of debuff or secondary damage.  Different creatures are susceptible to these in unique ways.  Experiment to find viable strategies for applying these new tools.
Savheim IV - The more stars a creature has, the better the loot.  At three stars and up you'll start to see increasingly precious components.  Infused creatures are rare and have coveted treasures.
Savheim IV - Meadows will always remain relatively peaceful, regardless of your progress through the game.  The same cannot be said for anywhere else in the world.  Bring a Torch for Winter.
Savheim IV - Some creatures have learned to dual wield for increased offense, use shields for improved defense, carry light sources for better visibility, or use magic for ... magic.
Savheim IV - Haldor and Hildir sell valuable items.  Their inventories will grow as you slay bosses, so check back from time to time...  Hey, hey, do you wanna buy a funnel cake?
Savheim IV - All attack skills now gain double experience until they've caught up to your highest attack skill.  Try a new weapon!
Savheim IV - The Deep North is scaled for endgame but can be visited at any level.  Be sure not to disturb the peace though, and beware The Inquisition.
Savheim IV - Bleed effects do greater damage per tick and and last longer based on the victim's maximum health.  Bleeds can be stacked for increased damage per tick, but each additional stack will reduce the time your target bleeds.  Some creatures don't bleed.
Savheim IV - Resistance debuffs are ineffective against creatures that are naturally resistant to the damage type in question.
Savheim IV - After absorbing an attack with any shield, you have a brief opportunity to perform a high-damage Shield Counter with any one-handed weapon, excluding knives.  Staves of Protection have a Spirit Counter secondary move that can repel any attack.
Savheim IV - Hold 'E' while opening a chest to automatically deposit items from your inventory into matching item stacks already present in the chest.
Savheim IV - This season of Savheim introduces a wide variety of combat mechanics.  Some are complex, some are simple.  You don't have to master it all to be successful.  Choose what works for you.
